doc/get-build-install.rst, before:

.. _download:

Get, Build, Install
===================

The most up to date code is available from 
`my Mercurial repository`_. 
If you have Mercurial_, the easiest way to obtain the code is by cloning it:

.. parsed-literal::

  hg clone |dionysus-url|
  cd Dionysus
  hg up tip

If you don't have time or desire to deal with Mercurial, you can download the
`tarball of the entire repository`_. The advantage of using Mercurial is that it
makes it very easy to keep up with the updates that are periodically committed
to the repository::

  hg pull -u


.. |dionysus-url|   replace:: http://hg.mrzv.org/Dionysus/

.. _Mercurial:      http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/

.. _`tarball of the entire repository`:     http://hg.mrzv.org/Dionysus/archive/tip.tar.gz
.. _`my Mercurial repository`:              http://hg.mrzv.org/Dionysus/


Dependencies
------------
Dionysus requires the following software:

  :CMake_:              for building (version :math:`\geq` 2.6)
  :Boost_:              C++ utilities (version :math:`\geq` 1.36; including Boost.Python used to create
                        Python bindings)

There also seems to be a dependence on the version of GCC, although I don't
entirely understand it. GCC :math:`\geq` 4.3 definitely works, but some versions
below that seem not to. There were some major changes in 4.3, so it's not
entirely surprising, but I don't understand all the subtleties.

Optional dependencies:

  :CGAL_:               for alpha shapes    (version :math:`\geq` 3.4)
  :rlog_:               used for logging only (not needed by default)

..  :dsrpdb_:             for reading PDB files
    :SYNAPS_:             for solving polynomials (for kinetic kernel), which in
                        turn requires GMP_

.. _CMake:          http://www.cmake.org
.. _Boost:          http://www.boost.org
.. _CGAL:           http://www.cgal.org
.. _rlog:           http://www.arg0.net/rlog
.. _dsrpdb:         http://www.salilab.org/~drussel/pdb/
.. _SYNAPS:         http://www-sop.inria.fr/galaad/synaps/
.. _GMP:            http://gmplib.org/


Building
--------
To build the examples as well as the :ref:`Python bindings <python-bindings>`,
create a directory ``build``. Inside that directory run ``cmake`` and ``make``::

  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ..
  make

Instead of ``cmake``, one can run ``ccmake`` for a curses interface. The
following configuration options are available. One can set them either through
the curses interface or by passing a flag of the form ``-Doptimize:bool=on`` to
``cmake``.

  :debug:         Turns on debugging compilation
  :optimize:      Turns on compiler optimizations (`on` by default)
  :logging:       Turns on logging facilities
  :counters:      Turns on various built-in counters

Depending on the combination of debugging and optimization, a particular
``CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS*`` is chosen.

.. tip::    The default settings work fine unless you want to dive into the
            library's internals with logging or study the performance of various
            algorithms with counters.

.. todo::       Write sections on logging and counters.

Some parts of Dionysus understand the ``DEBUG_CONTAINERS`` definition which can
be appended to ``CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS``. If set, the library will use GCC STL's
debugging containers (from the ``std::__debug`` namespace defined in ``debug/*``
header files). These containers return safe iterators (the kind that check
whether they are singular when compared, or additionally whether they are out of
bounds when dereferenced).

.. todo:: ``ZIGZAG_CONSISTENCY`` definition


Install
-------

At the moment there are no installation procedures. To run the Python code you
need to have ``.../build/bindings/python`` somewhere in your ``PYTHONPATH``.
I.e. add::

    export PYTHONPATH=.../build/bindings/python

to your ``~/.bashrc`` (assuming you are using Bash_). Alternatively, run the
python examples from within ``.../build/bindings/python``::

    python .../Dionysus/examples/triangle/triangle.py

The C++ examples can be run from anywhere. The C++ library consists only of
header files (no library actually needs to be built), so to compile against it,
it suffices to add ``-I .../Dionysus/include`` to your ``g++`` flags::

    g++ your-code.cpp -o your-code -I .../Dionysus/include

Proper installation procedures (with ``make install``) will be added in the
future.

.. _Bash:       http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/

Commit message:

Fixed a typo in documentation + added a warning and a tip about GCC 4.2 on a Mac

doc/get-build-install.rst, after:

.. _download:

Get, Build, Install
===================

The most up to date code is available from 
`my Mercurial repository`_. 
If you have Mercurial_, the easiest way to obtain the code is by cloning it:

.. parsed-literal::

  hg clone |dionysus-url|
  cd Dionysus
  hg up tip

If you don't have time or desire to deal with Mercurial, you can download the
`tarball of the entire repository`_. The advantage of using Mercurial is that it
makes it very easy to keep up with the updates that are periodically committed
to the repository::

  hg pull -u


.. |dionysus-url|   replace:: http://hg.mrzv.org/Dionysus/

.. _Mercurial:      http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/

.. _`tarball of the entire repository`:     http://hg.mrzv.org/Dionysus/archive/tip.tar.gz
.. _`my Mercurial repository`:              http://hg.mrzv.org/Dionysus/


Dependencies
------------
Dionysus requires the following software:

  :CMake_:              for building (version :math:`\geq` 2.6)
  :Boost_:              C++ utilities (version :math:`\geq` 1.36; including Boost.Python used to create
                        Python bindings)

.. warning::

    There also seems to be a dependence on the version of GCC, although I don't
    entirely understand it. GCC 4.3 and above definitely work, but some versions
    below that seem not to.

    One particular catch is that the default compiler on many current Mac OS X
    is GCC 4.0 that has a well-known bug making Dionysus unusable. Fortunately
    the problem is easy to solve by using GCC 4.2 that is often available on a
    Mac under the name ``gcc-4.2``.

    One can check the compiler version with ``g++ --version`` command.

Optional dependencies:

  :CGAL_:               for alpha shapes    (version :math:`\geq` 3.4)
  :rlog_:               used for logging only (not needed by default)

..  :dsrpdb_:             for reading PDB files
    :SYNAPS_:             for solving polynomials (for kinetic kernel), which in
                        turn requires GMP_

.. _CMake:          http://www.cmake.org
.. _Boost:          http://www.boost.org
.. _CGAL:           http://www.cgal.org
.. _rlog:           http://www.arg0.net/rlog
.. _dsrpdb:         http://www.salilab.org/~drussel/pdb/
.. _SYNAPS:         http://www-sop.inria.fr/galaad/synaps/
.. _GMP:            http://gmplib.org/


Building
--------
To build the examples as well as the :ref:`Python bindings <python-bindings>`,
create a directory ``build``. Inside that directory run ``cmake`` and ``make``::

  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ..
  make

.. tip::

   To use GCC 4.2 on a Mac one can try ``CXX=g++-4.2 cmake ..`` instead of
   ``cmake ..``.

Instead of ``cmake``, one can run ``ccmake`` for a curses interface. The
following configuration options are available. One can set them either through
the curses interface or by passing a flag of the form ``-Doptimize:bool=on`` to
``cmake``.

  :debug:         Turns on debugging compilation
  :optimize:      Turns on compiler optimizations (`on` by default)
  :logging:       Turns on logging facilities
  :counters:      Turns on various built-in counters

Depending on the combination of debugging and optimization, a particular
``CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS*`` is chosen.

.. tip::    The default settings work fine unless you want to dive into the
            library's internals with logging or study the performance of various
            algorithms with counters.

.. todo::       Write sections on logging and counters.

Some parts of Dionysus understand the ``DEBUG_CONTAINERS`` definition which can
be appended to ``CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS``. If set, the library will use GCC STL's
debugging containers (from the ``std::__debug`` namespace defined in ``debug/*``
header files). These containers return safe iterators (the kind that check
whether they are singular when compared, or additionally whether they are out of
bounds when dereferenced).

.. todo:: ``ZIGZAG_CONSISTENCY`` definition


Install
-------

At the moment there are no installation procedures. To run the Python code you
need to have ``.../build/bindings/python`` somewhere in your ``PYTHONPATH``.
I.e. add::

    export PYTHONPATH=.../build/bindings/python

to your ``~/.bashrc`` (assuming you are using Bash_). Alternatively, run the
python examples from within ``.../build/bindings/python``::

    python .../Dionysus/examples/triangle/triangle.py

The C++ examples can be run from anywhere. The C++ library consists only of
header files (no library actually needs to be built), so to compile against it,
it suffices to add ``-I .../Dionysus/include`` to your ``g++`` flags::

    g++ your-code.cpp -o your-code -I .../Dionysus/include

Proper installation procedures (with ``make install``) will be added in the
future.

.. _Bash:       http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/
